Now after having a look at React, let's turn our heads towards Angular
and here I actually do provide a starting application which you can find attached to this lecture.
I use the CLI to create it, on the CLI Github page, you'll find the documentation how to use it,
basically you install the CLI globally on your machine and then you can create a new project with
these commands, again attached too, you find a project. You can then serve this by running ngServe in your
terminal in this folder,
so this would start a development server but it's not actually what I want to do right now.
Instead for now, I want to turn this into a progressive web app.
Now the application you have here is a super simple one,
you have a main page with two routes and you can load two different pages for these routes, a blog and
a users page
though both are test dummy pages.
I also have an import in index.html where I pull in Bootstrap 4 via CDN, so this is some external resource.
Now preparing our Angular project to be a progressive web app is actually pretty simple.
Create a React app, I created one out of the box, the Angular CLI doesn't do that, at least not at the point
of time I'm recording this
though I'm pretty sure they will do this too in the future.
Until they do this, we can manually turn this into a progressive web app and that mostly means adding
a manifest of course and adding service workers.
Let's start with service workers,
how does that work?
A crucial step is to go to the angular-cli.json
file and there in the apps configuration, in this first object here in the apps array,
there you simply add a new key.
You can add it anywhere here, you can add it as the first one or after the assets array, whatever you like
and here I will simply name this service worker.
The value of that then has to be true
and don't forget to add a comma after it.
Now this will basically tell the CLI that you want to create a service worker automatically through it,
just like create React app which also created one automatically.
That alone won't do it though,
we don't just have to set the configuration up like this,
we also have to install an extra package, so I'll quickly do that. For that I'll use the terminal, navigate it
into this project folder and then npm to install that package. With npm install --save,
I also save an entry in the package.json file and the package now is @Angular,
so you can tell it's part of the official Angular suite kind of, though it's not the most active package
at the moment,
I guess it'll see more activity in the future though,
anyways it's @angular/service-worker, simply hit enter to install that package.
Now it will take a couple of seconds but it will download it and basically add it to your project.
Now with this added, you can already run a production build and that's the important thing,
it has to be a production build because service workers are only added in production versions by
the CLI. With ngBuild, you can create a build and with --prod, you turn it into a production build,
so everything gets optimized
and as part of that, it also sets up a service worker.
So let's wait for this to finish and let's see what the CLI gives us.
It finished here and now we'll have this brand new dist folder.
If we inspect it, we see that we have a file which sounds like it's related to service workers, that
we get this service worker register file which is probably also related and we get this ngsw for
Angular service worker manifest.json file. If we inspect the manifest, we see there are a couple of
files in there and these are actually all our static assets,
the assets the CLI automatically identified during the build process and just like sw precache or workbox
also picked up all the assets and set them up for precaching,
this is what the Angular service worker package does here too.
It basically specifies that all these packages should be precached and it uses this hash here to track
the version of that and it will basically change this whenever the package changes
so that we always have an up-to-date version in the cache.
Now service worker register will in the end just do that,
register the service worker and worker basic is our service worker file, already managed and set
up by the service worker package.
So this is all the service worker stuff happening automatically.
Now one thing we can see in this ngsw-manifest.json file is it added all the
assets but we're missing external links, like for example our bootstrap import
but that could be anything,
could be fonts
you're fetching from somewhere else,
whatever it may be.
It would also be nice if we could set up our own routes we can handle there, basically a bit like what
we did with workbox.
Now the cool thing as we can simply add a file in our root project directory, so directly in our main
project directory next to package.json so to say and this file is also named
ngsw-manifest.json
.
Now don't mistake this with the manifest.json file for creating a web app with an app installed
banner,
this is a config file for the Angular service worker package instead.
So in this file, you can now set up some configuration for this package to use,
for example you can add external dependencies with the external key.
This takes a Javascript object and there you specify some
URLs you also want to precache, a URL
is basically a part in this array of URLs, a Javascript object and this has two elements or one element
to be precise,
a property of URL and then the actual URL.
So for example here, I could fetch the URL leading to Bootstrap here.
Now with that, I can copy it into here as a value for the URL property,
all of that is of course written in the JSON format.
Now that's external,
sometimes you also have some files you don't want to precache,
you can do this with static.ignore.
This also takes an array and in this array, you simply add strings with regular expressions.
So for example if you want to exclude all Javascript source maps, you can do \\.js\\.map$
and this would simply execute all files ending with Javascript.map,
so
all Javascript source maps. The most interesting part about this configuration is the dynamic routing
though, we can add the dynamic key here and that allows us to set up our own routes and the cache rules,
the cache strategies for the assets fetched from these routes. In this object,
we set up a group property and that takes an array
and now here you can set up your different strategies for different URLs. In each object you add
here inside the group array,
you set up a name property and that basically is the name of the cache you want to use,
for example posts images. Now we're not fetching any in this project but in our other, in our main project,
we did.
So this could be the cache name and then use set up the URLs which should be part of that rule
so to say. URLs is again a Javascript object and there, you now simply have key-value pairs where the
key is you your URL,
for example it could be https, firebasestorage.googleapis.com/ and the value then is an
object configuring this specific URL.
The most important configuration here probably is the match key where you can for example set it to prefix
to indicate every URL starting with this part
here should basically match this rule.
The alternative would be exact or you could also set this to regex
if you want to specify a regular expression up here, now I'll go back to prefix to basically say every
URL starting with this should match this rule.
Now what should then happen if this rule is matched?
Well we know that we want to match
this URL and we could add multiple ones, as a next step,
we can set up the cache implications this has.
So the most important thing here is optimize for which defines the strategy
and here you can choose performance or freshness. Now freshness reaches out to a network first because
it wants to get the freshest possible data
whereas performance reaches out to the cache first to get something on the screen quickly.
You can then also limit the age,
for example max age
milliseconds allows you to specify a value in milliseconds to define how long the cached value should
be valid
and max entries allows you to set the maximum number of entries stored for this rule.
This is another important part.
Now something else you may need to add if you are facing problems with routing is the routing key
here.
Routing also takes a Javascript object
and here you can basically inform the service worker package about the routes you have in your application,
so that when it's offline, it let's the Angular router do its job without interfering.
For that, you will basically specify your index file,
so /index.html
in my case and then also the routes you have in your app and in the future, this will probably
be fetched automatically.
You might even not face these issues,
I found that it's rather unstable because the project as a whole
unfortunately as I said is not that actively developed right now but I'm sure it'll pick up soon
since Google is the main driver behind progressive web apps anyways.
So anyways back to this route.
It doesn't hurt to set them up,
so here you can specify the routes you have, for example slash and then you can define that here,
this should only be treated as a prefix or not,
in this case not, so it means we have an exact route which is just slash
and we do in our application, that route, if we have a look at the routing module would lead to block component.
I also have users in this application, so what I could add here too is another route, /users where
I could say here it should be a prefix,
it also is a full route in my case but I could have nested routes and all of them should also
redirect to the index.html file so that this is always loaded,
so that Angular always has a chance of taking over.
This is basically the core configuration you may set up in this file.
Now one other thing that's missing of course is the manifest.json file to get this app installed banner.
You should add that in the assets folder because that is a folder Angular will copy over into the dist folder,
if you added in your source folder, these files don't get copied over so the manifest.json file wouldn't
make it into your build files.
In assets it will,
so there I'll add a manifest.json file
and now we can add some content.
Now there, I'll simply paste in the manifest.json file we have in our main project, maybe replace the
name, Angular as PWA,
so we have PWAngular
I guess. The icons here are the icons
I do have in my project, though I have them under assets icons now,
so I need to replace this,
this first part here should basically become /assets for all these icons. And then I correctly
state the index.html as my starting page and all the other parts are also OK, maybe change the description, this is
Angular as PWA. With all these changes in place,
let's run build again with --prod to see if that all correctly makes it into our build folder,
though
I can cancel this because I forgot something important,
of course the manifest file alone won't do anything,
we have to import it in index.html, so let's add a link there too.
We add a link which doesn't import a stylesheet but the manifest and then here we link to /assets
/manifest.json.
Now with that, we can trigger the build process and see what it spits out
and of course you could add all the other made up properties for Safari and Internet Explorer here too.
Now let's wait for this to finish
and let's then send have a look at the dist folder.
There you see the assets folder with the manifest and you'll also see the index.html file.
Now let me serve this in production mode with --prod and let's see what this does.
Here it warns us that we shouldn't use this as a production server and we shouldn't,
it's only there for testing
and I'm interested in seeing if we now correctly load our manifest and so on.
So here on http://localhost:4200
we can load our application, just to be super safe that I load the latest state I'll clear the storage
and let's inspect the manifest. It correctly picked it up here,
so there this is all looking good,
we see our manifest as we did set it up and we also see that we have a cache storage there where we don't
have anything stored in there but I believe that is a bug or it is because we just loaded this, we should
be able to see more than nothing in this cache.
For some reason, the cache here won't update
but if I go to service worker in offline and I reload the application, you'll see it's still
working,
I could even navigate around,
so it did obviously cache the things,
we can check this if we go to the network,
you see everything is loaded from the service worker here.
So we do we have Angular loaded or driven by a service worker here even though it kind of seems a
bit buggy, with the cache here
it does cache it,
it does use the service worker
and with that, we got a set up where we use service workers in the Angular app. A bit clunky because support
could be better
and I'm sure support will be better in the future
but already something you can work with and something you can build up on. Configure it to your needs,
set up your own strategies in this file here
and with that, turn your next Angular app into a progressive web app.